The Joe Rogan.
Experience. It's so interesting when you play people,
clips of Obama talking about the importance of securing the border.
I like to play those clips. They sounds just like.
Trump play the statistics of how many people they sent back and telling people
to not come over with their children, they'll be separated from their children.
It's a,
it's one of those things where people like don't like that they don't like to
see that it really is deeply disturbing to them that Obama campaigned on this
idea of protecting our border.
Because we all used to agree on it. You know, it.
It came a racial issue with Trump.
Yeah. I mean, he's definitely said some things where you can yeah, yeah.
For sure.
Was raping side's murder.
And not going to defend, not going to defend Trump's rhetoric on the,
on your show or on any show. Um, that contributed to it. Sure.
But again, it was a pretty unemotional person.
I tend to look at what is the policy, right.
And so I have tried my hardest to move the debate towards when it comes to
immigration towards a, a matter of sustainability,
a matter of sovereignty and a matter of rule of law. Like,
do we have standards are doing not, you know,
do we believe in this idea of a managed border or do we not? And you know,
in the end yeah.
And Trump has made the Democrats so crazy that they've moved radically to the
left.
And it's interesting to watch people always say like both sides have gotten so
extreme. I always find that interesting.
And I say this there's two ways to manage, to, to measure extremism.
One is our voting record. Like how often do you really vote with the other side?
And you can measure that pretty carefully actually. And you look,
you've probably seen a YouTube video maybe where you watch all over time,
all the red dots and the blue dots,
and they sort of mingled together and their voting records.
And then they slowly over time moved to the sides.
So both sides are responsible for that.
Like a lack of lack of actual compromise, a lack of deal-making where we say,
okay, I'll vote for your stuff. You vote for my stuff that,
that doesn't happen anymore. Uh, and there's reasons for that we could get into,
but there's another way to measure extremism and it's the actual policy changes.
And so that we can observe that. And I think, I think, and in that respect,
I don't think the right and conservatives have really changed our policies,
or I don't think we've gotten more extreme.
I think the left has gotten vastly more extreme and that they've changed their
policies radically, uh, Medicare for all open borders. I mean,
effectively open borders. They don't like to use the word,
but when you're saying decriminalize it,
when you're saying no infrastructure at all on the border,
when you're saying no more ice detention beds, you're,
you're effectively saying open borders because you don't want to enforce it and
you don't want to stop it. So I don't, I don't know what else to call it. Um,
you know, and those are just some example, the green new deal. I mean,
socialism is a good word now. So like, I think there's,
I think that on that long, that measure, uh,
only one side has really moved to an extreme as far as policy policy positions
go. And to your point, you look at Barack Obama and he's,
he's not the only one you can look at Chuck Schumer's old comments on this
stuff. I mean, it's, you, Trump could have written those statements for them.
Yeah. And, um, what can.
The, the real issue is not people coming over here, uh, seeking work,
good people that just want to do better for the live.
The real issue is drugs and crime.
What can be done to mitigate the effect of the Mexican drug cartels?
Because that seems to be our biggest worry.
Our biggest worry is that cartels and cartel violence.
Well, no, our, well, our biggest word, that is a worry, but,
but there's a reason, again,
I go back to the matter of sustainability and sovereignty in terms of the.
Amount of people that.
I, I don't, I don't, I never, I actually never,
when I talk about the immigration issue,
I actually never talk about the drugs and the crime,
because I don't want to label these good people as criminals, drug dealers.
You know, that that's the wrong,
that's the wrong and most investment sorority are,
but that just because you're a good person and you want nice things doesn't mean
you get to move to the front of the line. I remember immigration policies.
So an important point to note for people that don't know,
it's kind of a shocking statistic.
We let in more legal immigrants in any other country.
Yeah. Over a million a year. Um, I think become citizens and,
and much more than that granted visas. So, and, and there's a,
there's a perfectly reasonable debate to have about how many work visa should we
have? Should we increase it or should we decrease it.
But how does someone get over here and how do we know they don't have a history
of violent crime?
Like, and I, you know,
I advocate for a merit based system with the president proposed,
I think is absolutely right. We, we,
we have the opportunity to choose the best people from the world to come here.
And if you're a refugee, we have a system for that.
And if you're an actual asylum seeker, we have a system for that.
But what we should be a totally opposed to is this idea that just because you
made it to walk across the border,
that all of a sudden you get to cut to the front of the line and that's exactly
what's happening right now. Um, because of the loopholes we have,
if you bring a child with you,
our laws are written so that we basically can't enforce it.
We cannot enforce these laws. Um, and this is for a couple of reasons,
one of the Flores settlement, you might've heard that a lot.
What it means is you can't detain a child past 20 days.
So if a family comes across or it's usually,
it's usually just a part of a family,
cause what they actually do is they split up,
they split their own families up because they don't want to deport one of the
parents. Does that make sense? Okay. So the Flores settlement says, you have to,
you can't detain children,
which effectively means we can never adjudicate these claims in time.
Whether it's an illegal crossing issue,
like a criminal act of 1320 us code 13, 25, illegal crossing,
or just they're claiming asylum. Either one, we can't,
we can't adjudicate it in time.
So what ends up happening is a catch and release. When they say, okay,
show up for a court date,
then what incentive do they have to show up for that court date? You know?
And they just don't. So Anne we're talking, you know, jeez,
in the earlier part of this year, we had over a hundred thousand a month.
And so it gets to a question of sustainability. Let's say all,
let's say all a hundred thousand people are perfectly good people,
but it's sustainable. It's a sustainability question.
And it's also a fairness question.
Like why do they get to cut in front of the legal immigrants?
Why do they get so much more priority over all of the other people who want
to be in our country around the world? I mean,
they don't have that opportunity to just walk across the border. So it's just,
it's just complete. It's utterly unsustainable.
And if we value a sense of sovereignty and rule of law, but I think we should,
we value the idea of having a managed system. Then,
then we have to put a stop to that and then have a good conversation about,
well maybe we need more workers. Okay,
well then let's increase worker visas if that's.
True. Well,
I think we show sympathy about on them because they're poor people that are
trying to do better for their life.
Whereas we look at people that are coming over from Canada and if we had a
hundred thousand people from Canada illegally immigrating into our country,
every year we would go, Hey, Fox, get back over where you are.
Like you guys have a great country already.
You don't have the problem of a lack of opportunity in Canada,
the way people do in Mexico.
There's a giant disparity between north America in terms of like the
United States of America and Mexico, the economic possibilities, the,
the sharp drug violence.
Laws are laws have to be written blind to those subjective terminology. Sure.
You know, and that's, that's really important because otherwise, why have them,
like, why, why even have a system at all? If you just, if you,
if it's enforced based on feelings, the.
Case scenario would be Mexico becomes like Canada, right?
Wouldn't that be the best case scenario, Mexico.
Thinking they're not the one ones that are actually, we're having an issue,
you know, it's, it's vastly central Americans. So again,
this stems from loopholes in our laws. Okay. So, uh, cause in Mexican, too,
because there are actually border us, right?
Our laws work where we can actually just put them right back for the most part,
a single adults to weaken our system works okay. With that.
The problem is if you bring a child and so every,
so everybody tends to bring a child in what this also causes is human
trafficking. A lot of these children don't belong to these parents. Okay.
So now we have to look at DNA testing to try and to try and Fort this and that
is what's happening now.
And we find that good amount of kids don't belong to these parents. So.
They bring over a kid in order for them to.
Stay. And what will happen is then they'll recycle that kid.
So border patrol often sees the same kid coming through with different adults in
and out. And it's, it's terrible.
And what other kinds, I mean, if it's not Mexico, what are the,
the main countries where these people are coming.
Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador.
And again,
it seems like the only way that anyone could really truly fix that is
if those countries could rise up to the level of Canada.
So they could be commensurate with the United States.
The left says we need to do, and I don't disagree with it at all. Uh,
the problem with what the left is suggesting is that's the only thing we need to
do. And that's just not true. We also have to enforce our actual laws, but then,
but it's, but it is a bipartisan, I think, agreement that we,
we want to develop the countries closest to us. Uh, I'm on a column,
a co-sponsor on a bill that does just that it's a bipartisan bill. Um,
and I think it encourages a more creative look at development in central
America. Uh, the Bush Institute is talks about this a lot.
And I think it's a really good idea,
which is basically economic empowerment through, through digital infrastructure.
So here in America, I mean,
we made a lot of money just based on the gig economy.
Every individual can empower themselves and, and work towards that.
And that's really cool. Uh,
they don't have that opportunity down there and it's a lack of digital
infrastructure, whether it's broadband or whatever. Um,
so working towards investing in the right things, as opposed to just, Hey,
here's some aid that, that your,
your corrupt politicians can line their pockets with and we can feel good about
ourselves and pat ourselves on the back and think like we're doing good for
other countries, but we're really not again, feel good or do good.
So it was a good question to ask. And so I think, I think we're,
I think we're working towards the solutions in Congress.